hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions here's a fun
problem I received about two years ago
by email if a B C and D are positive
integers with a sum of 63 what is the
maximum value of a B plus BC plus CD I
did some research and I trace this
problem to the Australian intermediate
Olympiad in 2013 the test is for
talented students in the year seven
through ten which I believe is roughly
the ages of eleven through fifteen the
test is four hours long and there are
ten problems and no calculators are
allowed and remember students have not
yet taken calculus so limit yourself to
geometry and algebra this is a very hard
problem I'll admit I was not able to
solve it if you'd like to give it a try
pause the video right now and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
so let's start analyzing the problem we
have an expression a B plus BC plus C D
this seems like an arbitrary sum of
numbers but to get a better sense of it
let's use an area model
let's first construct a rectangle with
an area of a B let's have a height of a
and a width of B so this rectangle has
an area of a B we now need to get an
area of BC we can do that by adding a
height of C this rectangle will have an
area of BC to get an area of C D we'll
add a width of D this rectangle will
have an area of C D finally we can
complete this rectangle and this
rectangle will have an area of AD so now
the sum of these blue rectangles will be
the area of this entire rectangle - this
small rectangle ad this implies the
following algebraic identity so how does
this help us well to maximize the
expression on the Left
we can instead maximize the expression
on the right we can then evaluate the
expression on the right using a little
bit of geometric reasoning for a given
height of this rectangle the sum of the
blue areas will be maximal if we make
the variable a as small as possible a
has to be a positive integer so the
smallest positive integer will be one so
let's see what happens when we make a
smaller notice we increase the sum of
the blue areas similarly for a given
width the sum of the blue areas is
maximal if d is as small as possible
so we make D the smallest positive
integer which is one let's see what
happens when we do that we've now
transformed the problem into something a
little more manageable we want to
maximize the following expression we
have 1 plus C multiplied by B plus 1
minus 1 now recall the sum of a B C and
D is 63 since
and D are equal to 1 this simplifies to
be B plus C is equal to 61 we can then
solve that B is equal to 61 minus C we
can substitute that in to the expression
we want to maximize and we get an
equation in just one variable C we can
then expand this binomial and simplify
to get the following quadratic equation
so how do we maximize this quadratic
equation well think geometrically if we
have a parabola with an equation alpha x
squared plus beta X plus gamma is equal
to 0 we know that its vertex will be the
maximum or minimum value and that'll
happen at X is equal to negative beta
over 2 alpha where alpha is not equal to
0 in our quadratic the maximum will
happen at this vertex this will be when
C is equal to negative 61 over negative
2 and that simplifies to be thirty point
five now recall that C has to be a
positive integer so we're going to try
the closest integer values of 30 and 31
when we do either of these we end up
with the same maximum value of 991
and that's our answer so the problem
seemed like it would be impossible to
solve but with a little bit of geometric
visualization and logical reasoning we
can see why the correct answer has to be
991 Wow
thanks for watching and making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
you